Hello and welcome to the swift community podcast. I'm your host, Matt Diess. And today we're discussing the state of the swift community. I am joined by Barbie Vanity, a community member. Barbie. Hello. You tell us a bit about yourself.
Hi. My name is Barb. Even Aki. I've been developing in Swift for about two years now, and I've been a part of the swift community for that entire time.
Great. I'm also joined by Bozz. Brooke. He is a conference speaker, Boss. Alo. Uh, can you tell us a little bit about yourself? Hey,
Matt. Um, yeah. I mean, I'm not just a conference speaker, but I've been, you know, speaking at conferences for over two years. Um, and other than that, I'm an eye Wes developer. Andi, I've been doing Swift since about the beginning on Did a bit of objective see before it out.
Great. And our fourth host is a regular blogger. I'm sure you all know him. Johnson Del. Hey, John.
Hey, How's it going? Matt Goods. Great to do a podcast with all of you. I'm really excited about this. Yeah, so yeah, like you mentioned I do a bunch of blogging. I run a site called a Swift Bison Dele, on which I publish a new article every week about Swift. And I've been doing so four of 111 weeks now. So, uh, going strong.
That's incredible. Yeah, it's been quite a while, so it's Ah, right now, it's almost like a routine like it. Like it feels like I couldn't stop like it's it's become kind of a part of my life, but yeah, it's ah, it's so much fun. And I'm really, really enjoying being a part of this community in general, So excited to talk about it here on the show. Me too.
I've been, ah, meet up host for about two and 1/2 years now, and I always see one side of the community. So today I was hoping to talk about all sides of that community.
So that's why I sort of gave those monitors to everyone when I was introducing you all, um, so that we can show that we have a nice, diverse crowd, you know, sort of diving in. Ah, super vague question. How is the community?
Yeah, that's I think that's a really good question. Ah, like the state of the community, and how does it feel to be a part of it? And I think this also is an interesting point, because when we had objective see before, like before Swifts came along, the community was very much like the Iowa's community or the Mac developer community. But now we have this thing would swift like as a language. We have, like a community around the language itself, with swift evolution. We've got, you know, people writing about it. Podcasts, obviously, on a bunch of people like organizing conferences and talking about the language and how it relates the things like I was developing a Mac development. So I think, personally, that's incredibly exciting to be part of that and to also see the community kind of forming the language itself, not only be consumers of it, but also actively participate. Yeah, it's almost
like we've taken a complete 1 80 turn from the objective. See days where it was a very closed apple, makes it you use it right. Whereas now people are really getting excited getting behind it there, helping build it.
It seems like they're more excited to talk about it. You know, we least to my knowledge around here didn't have really any objective C based conferences. And now we've got swift conferences and,
um, people are writing about it. And so, John, from from your perspective as a blogger, how how it has the community really received writing like I've never done a block, So I don't know what that is like from that end,
I think with Swift in particular, like there has been an opportunity for a lot of people, too. Get into writing and getting to blogging because were five years into Swift now. But there's still so many things that are un explored and, like a mention earlier, like the community is helping change and form the language all the time. So there's always an opportunity to write about an idea, even if it hasn't even been implemented in the language yet because it's all kind of up for grabs. So I think that's incredibly exciting as someone who doesn't know the writing, that there's just so many things to write about, and I see people all the time, like starting to writing now, right there, first block post about something they worked on, or some problem they solved and I just think that's great, that we have, ah, atmosphere in the community where you can share, you know, almost anything that you want and, you know, people might give you tips or might give you feedback on it. But in general, like it's a very welcoming community in this regard, which is really great,
absolutely agree. And with so many topics that are up for grabs, Barbie, how do you feel a someone sort of just getting into the community? What's it like to have so many things and and all that sort of just in front of you?
It is something that I realized that I'm super fortunate to have. But at the same time, I also realized that to some extent it is regional. And by that I mean right now I live in Boston, which is a great tech hub. There is a meet up almost every day that I can go to to learn from other developers in a hands on way.
No, If I didn't have that, I would be using, you know, almost exclusively tutorials almost exclusively blog's, which I think have done a great job to sort of equalize, you know, the amount of opportunities between people who live in tech hubs and not tech hubs. But you know, that is a difference that I do want to bring up
for sure. Um, so do you feel like those meet up sort of help you get focus because, you know, I I help organize, Learn swift Boston. That's how we met.
But there are tons of meet ups, as you pointed out, like Swift Miami Koko Head's is Ah, nationally, I think even a global organization. So, like,
you know, how are you using meetups in Boston?
Before doing meet ups, I again was teaching myself through tutorials. I was teaching myself through blog's. But at least for me, I realized that I could get on Lee so far and teach myself only so much before I needed to, You know, start standing on the shoulders of giants and asking more experienced developers for help. So the meet ups really helped me with getting that coaching and challenging me on the projects that I had been doing
great. It was great to hear and Baas to bring you into the conversation.
Among many other things. You have done some conference speaking end with
the vast topics and the idea of sharing anything. How do you find the process of have coming up with an idea for a conference speaking at the conference and then getting that feedback from the community?
Yeah, I think I think I would
say it's similar to to blocking where
there's a lot to talk about and
especially, I think, with speaking, you get the chance to really make it personal and to really go deep into a topic. Also looking at the journey you went through
a broader than in a block post where you probably want to be a bit more focused. Um, and that's been like a really, really nice experience for me because, like you mentioned, it's not only that you write it or did you give the talk, but you get the feedback from others?
You are already in an environment where you are speaking where all the other people are listening and are giving you feedback and are talking to you. Um and yeah, it's like a great experience of a roll and get you to meet up, get you to conferences, get you to other countries and that also like gives you the opportunity to meet a lot of people to get a great over a few off the diversity of the community. Yeah, it's it's wonderful.
Yeah, and I think you like on the topic of conference speaking. One thing that I love that you mentioned their boss is that you have the opportunity for a little bit of kind of storytelling. Tiu share with other people, something that you might have encountered in your work or some problem that you have to solve or just telling the story of how you built a nap or how you and your company works. And I think that's like super valuable and those are some of my favorite conference talks when I go to conferences is to hear those stories from people. And with that said like, I think that sometimes when we think about conferences and we think about talks and who is going to percent, we think that it needs to be someone who's like an expert. You know, here's an expert in Jason parsing, or here's an expert in networking and they talk about networking. It
doesn't have
to be that way. I think there is such a big opportunity for poor people to just tell their stories and share their learnings. Even if you're not a quote unquote expert within a specific field.
Yeah, totally. E. I think you and I have both had this, uh, where people come up to you and say, Hey, I would love to do this, but I feel that I can't or I feel that I have to learn. Maura, I feel that I'm not an expert,
but I've seen time and time again that
maybe the talks from those non experts are like, as interesting as the others, because they have a really different way of talking about what they have been tackling and what they've been working on and
giving that perspective of. Hey, what is the context of the problem you're talking about? And how did you solve it, or how did you deal with it is is really interesting. And that's also wife said like, Hey, if you feel comfortable with it and you would love to try it, then
don't let anybody stop you because you have a story to tell Ng you have three ability to to convict great talk.
Yeah, absolutely. There's nothing better I think as a beginner in something to also hear from a beginner within that feel, like someone who overcame a challenge that you're facing yourself and the example I like to bring up recently about that, for me personally, has been machine learning like I've been. I've been learning more about machine learning and you know how that works. All the different frameworks and tools that are available and hearing people give these talks that are called, like, you know, getting started with machine learning or how I learned the first thing about machine learning has been like super inspirational because those people have just overcome the challenge that I personally I'm facing right now, which, you know, that's just super inspiring to hear. And I think you before Barbie, you were talking about meet ups and the power of meet ups, and I think this is super related, where conferences are really great, but they tend to be a little bit bigger. And, you know you have to pay to go there. Yeah, maybe I have to travel but meet ups you can usually attend to your local city, which is a great way to get started like you know, interacting more with your local community.
Exactly. And I think, really, the power of meet ups. It cannot be overstated enough. Uh, you know that they really can help you make that bridge. I know you both were talking about delving into something that's unfamiliar for me. My background before coming into swift development was that was actually a law student, and I really did not know anything about swift and meet ups work how I bridged that gap.
Yeah, that's it recalled to here. It's the same with Garrick, who is also one of the co founders of this podcast. He was a lawyer before he became a swift to L A prize. I think it's just awesome to hear when people made those, like big, radical changes in their career. It's
it's also really inspiring to hear that Absolutely.
And so you know how we're talking about, You know, people sort of taking that first step, either coming to a meet up or writing those first block posts. How can we, As as various people in the community help
lower that perceived barrier for entry for other writing a block post, doing a conference talk or How do we encourage people to sort of join meet ups and proposed session ideas for that?
One thing that I would really, really recommend that I noticed. At least I learned swift Boston meet ups is at no point did anybody ever treat it like it was a phase that I was going through. So one thing I noticed with beginners of anything, whether it's an instrument or some new hobby, is we often treat it like this is a phase that they're gonna be really, really into for a week or two. But then it's a hobby that they're gonna abandon.
And from the very first meet up that I went to, everyone assumed that it was something that I would take seriously and that it was something that I would see through, and I did so definitely not be little ing. Beginners is a great start. I know it seems obvious, but it's worth saying,
and I promise I did not pay Barbie to say that about my meat.
Uh, nice. It's a really good point, though, and like you say, Barbie, it's It can sometimes happen without you thinking about it, right? Like you can. You can treat someone like they are. They are more of a beginner than they might be. Or you can maybe make some comment that you know, sounds kind of obnoxious or or make makes it sound like that's not their place or something like that. And I think actively, always thinking about trying to make the community as welcoming and warm And, yeah, just welcoming for everybody's always important.
Yeah, absolutely. And one of the other things said I wanted to mention is I realized that for community organizers, often times overcoming, that is something that you might be doing before that person even comes in the room because the person learning could come in with their own biases. So, for example, I remember when I first went to my first meet up, I was experienced kind of what I called the gym paradox, which is when you know, you go to the gym for the first time, maybe ever, and you think, Oh, everybody's gonna notice how out of shape I am.
You know, I look
like this balloon, I promise you. No one is thinking that, by the way, and the reason I was thinking that is cause I'm going into this meet up with no program experience. And I've told about this before that I'm in front of all of these super incredibly qualified engineers. And I was asking them how to get my apple watch to beep.
And not once did any of them ever be little me about that whole. So really, you know, being being patient, realizing that maybe the person coming in is already nervous enough, That's something that I think we could really, you know, try to do.
And that, you know, speaking is one of the co organizers of the meet up. That's something that we put a lot of focus into. Where, you know, we've gotten in the habit of of trying to greet every person that walks in with a handshake from at least one of us, so that you feel like you're not. Um, some of this is sort of like awkwardly walking into rooms like What do I do? Do I sit down to grab some food? Um, and you know, when someone asks the question We don't like you, don't scoff at them. Go. You should know that we you know, we we try our best to answer at a level we think anyone could understand whether you've been doing it for five minutes or five years. Yeah,
I think that's a very good thing to
keep in mind. I've had the same experience with the two of the coca heads. Basically, where have been Thio being Coco hats and L in the Netherlands when it was still living in the Netherlands on Now Coco hats? Hamburg. While I'm working in Hamburg at the moment
and I can attest to the same, it's I think it's a really good idea to, like, welcome everybody, give everybody a hand. I think I will actually look forward that,
but something we like something that we do at congrats. Hamburg is also before to talk. Start every single time. We do a really short inter around of everybody. Eso everybody get it, gets a chance to tell like what they like, who they are, where they work. Um, and most of the time there is a funny question like a what is your favorite framework or like some kind of opening? Ah, like some kind of opportunity to talk about something you like or some something you can then be approached by,
and I think that's really been an eye opener and you hear about people saying, Hey, this is the very first time I'm going to meet up or Hey, I'm not even doing swift yet. But I saw this and it was interested. And it also allows you to then say, Hey, let's talk to these people on give him some advice or or talk on and ask like how they got here. Andi, I've seen that as also something we as like the people that are speaking more often or are attending to meet up more often should do and can really help those people feel comfortable
and that how did you get here? I think it's such a powerful question, especially with the more senior people at the meet ups. I remember thinking this guy probably went to M. I t. And is just some really, really experienced computer scientists. And it turns out that one of the best IOS engineers I know apparently was a professional musician before this. So it's always great to see people stories
and I think I think also that really helps sort of take everyone off the pedestal. Um and I think that's an important part toe to grow the community where you know I do have a computer science degree. But that person is definitely smarter and better than May, despite us both being involved in the meet up.
Yeah, that's an incredibly inspiring thing. Also for me to hear all the origin stories and to hear how people got into this community in so many different ways, like some people are more like traditionally educated and computer science. Some people learned on their own some people start programming as kids. Some people were lawyers, and then they learned, Ah Swift later on. And to hear all these different perspectives is just super interesting. Also, I think so. I also love to hear what people did before and what kind of backgrounds they have, because so many times you can capitalize on those backgrounds as a developer because development, development and programming isn't sitting in a basement working on your own anymore. Like that's like the stereotypical hacker in the nineties, right? Like neo in The Matrix, that's basically your your stereotypical programmer these days, like it's so much about like teamwork and I we work together and what we bring to the table. And so many times I found myself that I can draw on my previous experiences before I was a full time developer. And I'm sure that's true for so many other people. Like if you have a background in music, I'm sure you could use that to build an amazing music app, right? And that, I think, is something that's worth remembering is that even though you didn't go to university and you have, like, you know, seven years of education in computer science, you still have a lot of valuable things you can bring to the mix.
Yeah, I would definitely say you like that Can't be understated. Um, I think what I've seen at work is that they're really open for people to switch to switch teams within the company
where, like a former HR person, is now doing agile project management. Um, and a former marketing person is now our
product owner, and although those might be really different things, you can see that everybody brings this past experience every single time that has happened. You see that that helps this person like make it a better product in our robotic better agile project mentor in this case in Yeah, that's really, really, really cool to see.
And I think that that diversity is really important because based on, you know, whether your upbringing or your training or your education, you might take a part of problem differently. And so, you know, being computer science, I have a very, um, analytical way to break down a prod, a problem that was taught to me in school where, as you know, an artist might look at it from, ah, very different perspective where I can't even think that way. And so, from for people to come with all these different backgrounds and to integrate all into the same field, I think
brings that that unique perspective and create our way of thinking about problems,
Yeah. I mean, it's definitely been eye opening
many times where it's like, Hey, I would never even thought about this right. Um, and it's like, That's really cool that you like to look at this problem from a very different perspective.
Yeah, and I think also that point like that, everyone has a different perspective. It also kind of ties back a little bit into what you were talking about before Barbie about going to the gym and you feel like, you know, out of place because you're you're out of shape, right? And one big eye opener for me. Also starting to attend meet ups and conferences was that even though everyone comes from different backgrounds and have different experience and some people have been doing programming for 10 years, some people just got started. Everyone kind of faces the same challenges. You know, everyone is struggling with massive you controllers. Everyone is struggling with X code, right, like this is all the same problems we're facing. And
that's I think also something that's good to keep in mind is that if even if you have a little bit of, you know, imposter syndrome or you might not be the most social person, like when you go to a conference, just keep that in mind that everyone is facing the same problems as you.
Yep, and said to that point, I think it's really great, like you guys mentioned When people do chronicle their failures and they talk about in a very public way, it's something that I appreciate and respect immensely. Because of that
and so we've all been very, very positive so far, which is great, that that makes me like, warm inside to know that the community is thriving and everyone's happy. But there definitely are some haters out there, um, John, But from a writer's perspective, have you gotten much hate?
Well, there's there's there's different degrees of of what some people would call hates right. So I think whenever you produce any kind of content at any form of scale, like if you are writing or podcasting or creating videos on YouTube and you're putting yourself out there, there's always going to be people who either disagree with you. And that's of course, completely fine. And we can have a healthy discussion about different topics, and different people can bring their opinions and different solutions. And we can argue over the pros and cons. So sometimes people put that in the same bucket as people who are just actively hating on something. And I definitely don't do that like, I really encourage people to discuss the things that I write about and the things I talk about on my podcast, et cetera. Because that's just how we move forward like the point is not for everyone to agree with me. That's definitely not why I do what I do. And I think also like, kind of my style of writing should come to tell you that where
I am usually not writing in the eye form like I'm not saying like I am making this and this is my thing. And I invented this pattern like I'm usually writing in the we form. I'm saying, like here we have this view controller and now we're going to see how we can maybe improve it. And here is one technique yes or not A technique. What do you think? Which one is your favorite et cetera? And I think
that is an important distinction to make that we need to be ableto have discussions and discuss things without it being like labeled as as hate. And we need to also, to your point mad. We need to be able to also like bring up things that maybe are not perfect and see how can we improve them, but to do so in a very constructive way. And one thing I always think about in that regard is, too if you're going to present a problem which is fine. You know, problems exists everywhere in block posts and podcasts in, you know, conferences and in the community in general. But don't just bring a problem, because anyone can complain about something but also bring a solution like the classic constructive criticism kind of way of thinking where you know it's completely fine to bring up things that are that could be improved but also bring an idea of how it could be improved, because I think that's just so much more valuable than just quote unquote hating on something
for sure. And when someone just comes in says, I don't like this there, you're not providing any feedback that's actionable. I can't, you know, help you understand my point of view. I can't, uh, change my point of view to to meet yours like, you know, like you said, bring some some constructive criticism of like, I don't like this because or I think this is this a better idea, and then that's something you can discuss. And that's something that you know. Either you get a future block, post a future conference talk or maybe a future meet up session about
yeah, absolutely. And I have a very concrete example here, actually, which is kind of met up because we're now doing a podcast. So when I started doing podcasting, I didn't know anything about audio production. Like at all. That was the first time I ever liked recorded anything. So it wasn't great, like in technical terms, like it could definitely be improved, and I'm sure it still can be improved. But one thing that happened was that a lot of people were just sending me messages or e mails saying the audio's too loud, that's it. Or some people then also was sending me messages. The audio is not loud enough like it's too quiet. So I got these conflicting signals. You know, Is it too loud? Is declining. Make up your mind community, you know? But that's another thing. Like you have all these different signals from different people. You have to like, look at the aggregates. And
so that happened. Like I got a lot of that feedback, and I didn't really know what to do with it until someone who actually knew what they were talking about in audio production told me. You know what, John? I think you're not using a compressor, right? You're not using a compressor. And I said, No, I'm no, I'm not. I have no idea what that is. And that was that was the point where actually realized that. Okay, if I actually applied compressor to my audio, it's going to be more normalized and better. And I'll have these spikes and valleys and that's going to,
you know, make more people be able to listen to the show in a comfortable way and not think it's too loud or too quiet. And after I did that, you know, that was a few episodes in that that feedback just disappeared. But it took that person. It's actually give me that constructive feedback and give me, ah, idea for a solution in order for me to actually fix the problem.
That thing that's a great example.
Baugh's How about you, from from a conference side? What has anyone like a soon as you get off stage or during a Q and A phase, just like yo, that was a terrible talk. Luckily, that
hasn't really happened.
That's good. Thio. No one throwing vegetables on you on stage. No,
no, no, exactly.
And I think also from the other perspective. And this is something that was brought up last time I was try Swift in New York in September. You can also a few it from the other perspective where hey, if you really liked something or if you learn something, tell that person and also be proactive to, like, shared a positive side.
Um, And it was really happy because I talked about this with Natasha. Natasha the robot.
Um and she mentioned that at the very beginning of the conference, right? Like, hey, if anybody feels that they learn something, please approach that person and let them know because everybody is really open to talk and really happy to hear that feedback.
Um, and also, if you have constructive criticism, please go to that person and talk to them on Guy really felt that that improved, like the amount of people like coming up to you on lead to some lead to some really great discussions. And I think that it's something that helps to like mention like, explicitly mentioned that on make people feel comfortable to come up to people and talk to them.
Yeah, then and for me, I can remember, sort of in the beginning of learned Swift Boston.
Ah, a few people would come in and make comments like Objective. See, ISS is still the rule of the land, and Swift is Justin Tactic, Sugar and, you know, standing in front of a roomful of people coming to learn swift. You know, it's kind of like a punch in the gut, but at the same time, like you just turn that around like OK, well, what makes you think that? I think differently. I think you know, this is sort of Apple's new thing that they are slowly encouraging us to get into. So let's let's talk about it instead of just shouting at me,
huh? Yeah, And another thing that I think it's also important to keep in mind is that it's okay to disagree, right? Like, and it's not a serious, um, some game. In order for a swift to win objective, C does not have to lose. I know that you know Chris Chris Latner. He kind of half jokingly says that he's going for world domination with Swift right? But, you know, it doesn't mean that in order for Swift to win like all the other communities are wrong and you know all the other languages are terrible. I think that kind of mindset is something that if you can work that out of your system, you know, I think as humans were kind of trained to pattern match and two, you know, find patterns and to stick with those and to say OK, this is the thing I like, and I'm going to just do that forever. I think if we can train ourselves to think more broadly and to maybe not always like, pick just one favorite tool and one favorite framework or one favorite language, but rather be open minded and see OK, what is the best tool to solve this particular problem? I think that usually, you know, ends up being a good thing in the long run.
Absolutely. And if you don't like that tool, there plenty others for you. You know, if you don't like Swift, they're still objective. See, you don't like object to see their swift. And in some cases there's even javascript, if that's what works for you. Yeah, totally. So you know, we've got the positive side. We've got the sort of hater side. And I think I think if there exists haters that that might even hint it's something sort of lacking from the community
whether that's, ah, knowledge and understanding or just a general like openness. So, um, Barbie, what do you think is sort of lacking in the community from attendee? Ah, consumer side.
I mean, I think we have everything in place, but perhaps diversity within the community can be addressed.
And so that's I think something. A lot of people are becoming a lot more focused on you. You hear conferences. Speakers will turn down the chance to speak at a conference because the speaker list is not diverse enough. Is that enough? Is that the way to go about it?
I think if you turned down a conference, I I absurd Luli. Respect what? You're trying to stand for, what you're trying to do. But, you know, maybe let's speak at that conference. But what I am thinking, things that really are kind of addressing that sort of thing are organizations that are really committed to outreach because I think without outreach, you're never going to solve this problem,
and it is a problem,
um, just to give you some context I can count on. If I'm at a 70 person meet up. I know I will still have the women's bathroom all to myself. But conversely, I just got back from a hackathon. It's called Tech Together in Boston. It's an all female FIM non binary hackathon, and it was insane going in there and seeing hundreds of girls that are all developers just like you that you have never seen in any other event. And another great organization that's doing a really good job without reach is resilient coders. And it's this organization that reaches out to young people of color who don't have a college degree. They train them on, you know, various platforms, and then they helped them get interviews with companies like Microsoft I know is one of the ones that hires outreach programs like that, I think, are the ones that are gonna make a huge difference in increasing the amount of diversity in the community.
Yeah, sounds amazing. That's fantastic to hear. I didn't know that existed.
There's and that's what this is. There do exist programs, but really becoming aware of them is tough. So that's why when I say having you know a program and having it be stagnant isn't enough outreach and making sure you're actually, you know, being found by those target populations I think is really important
There is this saying right that step one of fixing a problem is acknowledging that you have a problem and it feels like we're still kind of going through that step one as a community like we're still just recognizing the problem. And we're starting to wake up to the fact that there is a problem, even though, of course, you know, there's been a lot of recognition of the problem in the past, but as a general kind of wider community were recognizing the problem and starting to figure out ways to contribute in order to actually address
it. What's really interesting, though, that I've noticed and I can't quite pin why is in the time that I've been attending these meet ups, I feel like the turnout rate has more than doubled, but I feel like it's also been rather homogeneous and who's showing up and I can't place my finger as to why. But I think that's worth exploring.
Projecting out, I think it you know it's not just a community issue. It's ah, global societal issue of, you know, John called it out earlier, where the original idea of a programmer was someone sitting in a dimly lit basement and that someone was a man and that person was a certain social pecking order. And what we're seeing now globally is that mentality is shifting where anyone can do it. Whether you're a man, a woman, non bear, binary, regardless of your background, you know you can do this. And I think that's why you're seeing the influx in the meet ups. Um, Buzz Jonah, you also seeing that sort of growth? Yeah.
I mean, I actually recently had a really great experience where somebody from Coco heads that happened at 10 and Coke heads
reached out to me and she was saying, Hey, I'm looking for a new job. I'm looking for some more experience
and she reached out to me saying, Hey, like, I like talking to you and like, Hey, can you tell me more about the company you work for?
Right? And I said, I was like, Hey, I can either like, go that route and say, Hey, we have an open position, and, uh, that might be something. But instead I upped it for like, Hey, let's get a coffee and just talk about it. Um, right, because there's a lot more. There are a lot more companies in Hamburg as well. And I really felt like, Hey, if they are reaching out to me and asking me to help them, I want to give them the best thing for them and not just for me.
Um, And we We had a really great talk talking about her experience, talking about what she was feeling like that the current company talk about what she was looking for. And then I also brought up there first the rate and asked her, How do you perceive that? What do you think about it? Um and she said, like, really like thank you for bringing it up.
So I think also for us, um, for anybody in the community, we can be like a small part of improving this s. And I think the fact that it is being brought up and that it is being talked about is a really great step forward. Um, but at some point, there need to be the second, like Step two to really make a difference. And I think we're not there yet.
Yeah, and I also think it's important not to underestimate the impact that you can have on a local scale. Like you say, Boss, this was you having a conversation with one other person, but you probably made an impact on that person, right? And then that person might make impacts on other people, and it just keeps spreading. And I think sometimes when we have a problem like this, which is a huge problem, right, and it's been a huge problem for years and you look at it and you think, How can I help solve this problem? It's so monumental. Like how? Where would I even begin? And I think at least for me personally, like the way to get started getting involved in trying to improve the diversity and
and encouraging other people to join in. It's just see where you can help out and find those. Find those opportunities in your surroundings, like start talking to one person, help out, you know, offer your help, show that you're available for support and that's it can be a great way to just get started on attacking this huge problem exactly.
And so it sounds like we're all pretty well in agreement that diversity
is a top issue and something that we're lacking in the community. Is there anything else that we're lacking? I
think it the topic that I talked about a little bit earlier, which waas Ah, when you go to a conference, sometimes there's this perception that in order to present something, you need to be an expert. And I think that's another thing not specific to the swift community, but in general, like I would love for us, too. Try to also attack that problem and
it's
a little bit of
like a boot strapping problem where when I first wanted to start speaking at conferences, I had to send call for proposals like our submits proposals to, you know, lots and lots and lots of conferences. And, you know, I got rejected and no, we're not interested. And then eventually, like, you know, I got accepted by conference and then another one, and then once I had done like one or two talks, then all of a sudden people start inviting me, and that was just a crazy turn of events. So I was like, Hey, you know, where were all you people two years ago? And I think this is This is really like the bootstrapping paradox where, like in order to do conference talks you have to have done conference talks is kind of like getting your first job. Everyone wants someone someone would experience. But how will you get that experience if you can't get it somewhere? So I think, as a community, both when we're hiring people, when we are deciding who's going to speak in our conference or meet up and things like that, like encourage beginners and
really like, try to find those beginners that you can take a chance on because it is a risk. Like as an organizer of a conference, I understand that you need to sell tickets and you have to like, you know, provide a good, good event for everyone who bought tickets but taking those those chances on a few select people that you think could be great just to kind of help them bootstrap. Whatever it is, they're career or they're speaking, speaking career or whatever it might be. I think it's an important thing to keep in mind as well,
especially because swift, you know, when they first brought it out, they said that this is a tool is supposed to lower the barrier for entry, for getting into APP development. So many people were so scared of objective C and it's square brackets that they did away with them. And they made Swift, more conversational to write for the intent of getting these beginners so that they can write the block post so they can go toe to meet ups and talk and to go to conferences and talk. Yeah, absolutely.
I understand that when they when they first launch Swift that it was supposed to be more user friendly. But I do have moments where I sometimes think that it, for the most part, benefited people who already had that infrastructure in place. And by that I mean before you can even start, you know, open X code, you have to have a map. So I'm thinking, at that point you might need to invest first in a Mac computer. If you're unfamiliar with Swift, you probably have that fear. A lot of people just getting started with any sort of development do where you think you might not be able to learn it.
And so I guess for me it seems like the penalty for failure happens really early with any sort of Apple development. I can uninstall eclipse, but I can't return this Mac book. So I would think that for some communities, I think people are still discouraged from trying Swift because this penalty is it seems like it's a very severe gamble. You literally cannot afford to fail.
I I agree with that. And I think it's also pretty tricky from like from Apple to say, Hey, this is a quote unquote easy language because let's be fair, it isn't really too many people. It's, you know, different from Objective C and might have some some things that are easier to understand. But deep down, I mean, it's still objective C for one, and there is still a lot of tricky things. Um, and like you mentioned as well, that might make it even harder for people getting into it, expecting it to be easy, like, Hey, if I fail, then am I not good enough? Or like, um, I had a problem and not the language, which I think is totally not the case.
Yeah, and it's funny because that's something that I think a lot of people coming in it discourages bitting program because that feeling of failure regularly just having failure for lunch every day, is something that I think really dissuades people from coming in.
I think that's something you have to learn as a programmer and you weigh exactly. I mean, I can remember picking up, ah, like objective. See, because, you know, I bought an iPhone et cetera. And then
there was this this book from big nerd range, right? And it's like, Hey, object to see That would be really cool. I had a MacBook Let's do this. And I can remember these this this
weave pattern forming of like, Okay, I got this working out. It's like, Wait, but the next thing is like, I have no clue how to start and you're I felt like it was back to square zero, and I went through that face for quite a while until you get a bit more comfortable and it's definitely not easy.
And so now we've got people working on getting swift, working on Lennox and Windows. Do you think that's enough? Do you think
people are still gonna have issues getting into swift programming?
I think that is a fantastic first step for combating the very problem that I just mentioned.
What I've always wondered about it, though, is now that we're getting close to having it all these different platforms. Is there gonna be some platform independent? Ah, I D e that lets us make Iowa saps.
Yeah, that's the part that is kind of lacking at the moment. Or I feel like as a community, and in terms of swift evolution and things like that, there's no really clear direction around that. Like, Yeah, sure, we can get swift running technically on all these platforms, But how will you actually develop on them? Right? And even for something like clinics that a lot of people are using in production, they're using swift on the server with with frameworks like Vapor and Katara. But there's no I d for Service Side Swift. Yet I know my friend marching Shakhnovsky is working on one, but you know, that's gonna that's gonna take a while for for that kind of tooling to appear and I think that's an incredibly important piece of the puzzle that we can't forget that you know, in order for there to be a good development experience for all these platforms and in order to for for the people, on those platform to feel welcome and to actually get started with Swift. If you're on Windows or limits or something else, there needs to be something that you can start with. It can't be like, Well, you have to get a Mac and then you can deploy your coat onto your platform. You know they need to be something where you can actually start on the platform on your platform of choice.
And it's something that Apple is working on with Swift Ellis be Swift language server protocol, which tries to aim to, like bridge this gap and make it possible for for others to, like create an I D. Or to improve this developer experience. So I'm really looking forward to how that will progress. On the other hand, though, I still feel, um, I mean, yeah, we have swift no server,
but for something like Windows, I think Swift is still suffering from Hey, this is something you build us and make us Epps with. And I'm not sure if there's, like, a clear overview of, like, he what? To die. What is the USB of swift
on something like windows like, Yeah, the language itself. But is that gonna be enough
limits? It's deeply embedded in and cocoa and AP Kit and you can all those things. So we don't have the windows of covenant of that. We don't have the linens equivalent of that. The swift that runs out Lennox is just service side Swift to my understanding, right? Yeah.
And I think many people would even say like, Hey, is this swift like, it would probably not really feel like swift if you lack a lot of the features that we that we used a today.
Yeah, you were talking before a little bit about, like, the learning experience of Swift and how it can be really challenging to learn both, because it's a very powerful language under the hood. And it's easy to accidentally stumble down those rabbit holes right where you get some obscure error about a protocol you're not conforming to when you're just trying to declare a string right.
But the other aspect of that is the framework. Right Then we have to remember that learning a new platform is not always so much about learning the language itself. It's about learning the AP eyes in the sdk. And even if you bring swift to windows like
how we gonna build APS using it like how we're going to interact with the windows AP eyes? And I think that's an important part to solve. A swell where you don't want swift to feel like this foreign invader that comes in. And it's like, you know, it's not a good platform citizen because, asked Mac users, We know how that feels right when we have these APs that are clearly built using like Clark Cross Platform Technologies and don't respect the platform convention. So I think, you know, keeping those things in mind as well as we expand to new platforms is also
very important. Great. So it sounds like the overall state of the community is very good. There are definitely some things to improve diversity, ah, barrier to entry for people that don't necessarily have the ability to have a Mac and and I think those air problems to solve for sure, Maybe not with this audience. Maybe not our listeners, but for sure, I think those are very solvable problems. Yeah,
absolutely. It's all about like us is a community kind of dividing and conquering on it and, you know, trying to realize, like where everyone can contribute, even if it's not contributing to the compiler itself, or even if it's not building a Windows framework. For Swift, right, it's Ah, there's so many other ways to contribute, like we talked about on this show and and there's so many other outlets to help
out. Yeah, and this is something I always try to make people aware off where? I mean, I got started in many open source projects
by just looking at the documentation and updating like things like that. And it's
those kind of things that are really appreciated. And some people might think, Hey, they might not like it because I'm just gonna be nitpicky,
but you can really like you can help out anywhere, and it will be really appreciated.
I think that's a great thing to underscore. You know, if if you're thinking about getting into it, you're not sure where to start, try open source. Come to meet up, talk to some people and just try it, get it? Get yourself in there, ask questions and feel it out and see if it's something for you.
Yeah, and I think that is already, like, quite a big step, right?
But yeah, reach out to those people that are writing this really great brought posts or that are doing this podcast or
that you've seen some great tweets by that you've been able to use and reach out to them and tell them like, Hey, this is something I really like. And maybe that might also help get you a bit more comfortable and
then eventually make the step to, for example, go to meet up.
Yeah, I think that's very, very good advice. And one thing that I also usually like to emphasize Whenever we talk about this, I think when you hear a discussion like ours, sometimes I feel like you can get the impression that in order to be a good, swift developer, you need to do all these other things like you need to go speak at conferences. You need to write broad post. You need to be on a podcast You know, I think it's also important to to emphasize that even if it might be obvious, but emphasize that not everyone has to be a blogger. Not everyone has to be a conference speaker. You could be at awesome, great, swift developer. You can work in your company, never do any open source. It can still be a really great developer. And it's not about saying that everyone should do everything. But it's all about just seeing, like if you are interested in contributing to the community and whatever way, shape or form there's, there's probably something for you on. It doesn't have to be one of those things that you might immediately think of, like writing an article or or going to do a conference talk, because those things are quite big, so usually can start out with something smaller. Like like we talked about just attending a meet up, like just going and attending a meet up, drinking some free beer, eating some pizza, talking about Swift right? That's a great way to get started if you want to contribute to the community.
And the other thing is, I would say, Don't wait until you feel confident your abilities necessarily. I guess what I'm gonna say is don't wait until you start perceiving yourself as an expert till you have five years under your belt or what have you? You can help out. I think at any point. And by that I mean is even if you've only been using Swift for a year, I think you're still more than qualified toe Help your local high school computer science club and teach them a bit. You know, you don't need to be aiming for the highest projects. You just need to be aiming for the smallest that you're capable of achieving And the ones that people will appreciate the most.
Yeah, totally. And to sort of, you know, praise you a bit. Barbie. I remember a time at a meet up. I needed to go to the bathroom. And I was, uh, talking to a bunch of people who had never programmed a single line of Swift, and you were able to jump in and teach them collections in a way that I never thought to all the time that took me to run around the corner and back. So, you know,
I think that that is a great story. A great thought, a great feeling of you know, you may not have the confidence to stand in front of a room. You may not feel like you know enough to write a block post. You probably do in both cases. But if you don't feel that way, you can at least help a small group of people in the corner when they need it.
Yes, because there's always someone that doesn't know how to set up X code on. If you could do that, you can give back.
Yeah, absolutely. I think we've all been members of that club at one point or another, even, like recently, Like, you know, in different contexts. It might be like setting it up on C I or something, but yeah, definitely. Like taming X code is not an easy task.
I think I still have that experience to a certain extent, like every single day.
Yeah, exactly. I think I think this is a great feeling. Toe sort of end the conversation on. I want to thank all of my co host today. John, If people want to get a hold of you, how should they do that? You
can find me
on Twitter. I am at the Johnson Del and you can find all of my articles and my other podcasts with Bison Dele at Swift bison, dele dot com
and Barbie. If anyone wants to get a hold of you,
Yes, if you want to get a hold of you can catch me on Twitter. My handle is Barbie in beta. And if there's no post, it's because I made it today. I promise. It is not about
and buzz about you
you can reach me on Twitter. My Twitter handle is at Boss Thomas. Um, and I blocked from time to time at Boss Thomas Stock. Get help dot io
And if you're looking to get a hold of me, my twitter handle is at em. Dia Steph could also find me the third Thursday of every month it learns with Boston. One more quick plug. This was the first community proposed episode s. So if you are interested in making an episode of yourself, go ahead and pop over to the get hub for the podcast. There is some great read mee's that will sort of guide you through the whole process of proposing an idea developing that idea, getting people to help support that idea. I had a lot of fun coming up with the idea and getting feedback from people that were just checking out the get, huh? That's something for you. Definitely do it. Yeah,
absolutely. And math Big. Congratulations on organizing this episode. I think it was a lot of fun to do it and turned out great. And like you said, like if anyone else wants Thio propose an episode, this is a community driven podcast, and we might not have episodes as regularly as some of the other shows in the community because it's community driven, like we're trying to enable a lot of different people to voice their voices and to come up with ideas for episode. So definitely check out the get hab repo. We'll put a link in the show notes. If you're interested in contributing to the show being on this show, we're just coming up with the idea for an episode.
Great and thank you all for listening